you know as expected we got some
feedback from some traditional squaring
shooters saying that some of the
close-quarter shooting techniques we
were demonstrating weren't safe well in
fact they were safe but they just didn't
appear to be safe to the traditional
shooters the particular technique that
we got feedback about was the one where
we advocated throwing your hand up here
simulating a punch blow to the to the
throat but on the range throwing your
hand up here perhaps grabbing the
targets and if it's flimsy at the same
time you've draw your gun and with the
muzzle pointing away from your hand
obviously you take a shot and the shot
usually goes around here somewhere now
if you recall the way we taught this was
a progression we started out by going
hand forward hand on the gun bring the
gun to the shooting position look look
make sure at the hand and the muzzle are
in different places or point in places
then you pull the trigger and from there
we built up to doing it at slightly
higher speeds more realistic speeds the
fact is this is a safe technique when
you do it the way we teach him yes your
hand is in front of a muscle on the
street if you're trying to fight off
some bad guy at the same time he needs
to be shocked because he's trying to
kill you that's exactly the position
you're gonna be in your hand is gonna be
out in front of the gun the first time
you fire your gun with your hand in
front of it trying to fight off a bad
guy you don't want that first time to be
for real on the street you want to have
ingrain some muscle memory of how to do
that safely on the range this goes back
to a point we make over and over in the
video and on these tips and that is
there is a spectrum of safety on the
range where we can dictate the rules we
can force people to conform to the way
we want them to behave we can make the
range 100% safe it's only if people
don't follow the rules that the range
becomes unsafe on the other hand we
don't want to be completely reckless
where there's almost zero percent chance
then we're going to be safe when we
practice if we look what we want to be
on the street there was an inherence
safety trade-off just because there's
people all around and things aren't the
way they are on the range we want to try
to do is in a Putin practical safe
manner try to mimic Street conditions on
the range and that may involve us doing
some non-traditional things like
shooting without hand in front of the
muzzle just because it's non-traditional
doesn't mean it can't be safe and
certainly just because it's
non-traditional doesn't mean we don't
need to do it because for real we do
need to practice the way we're going to
have to fight